About
Comprehensive. Compassionate. Community

Originally opened in 1933 as a well-baby clinic, Whittier Street Health Center is a comprehensive and innovative health care and wellness center championing equitable access to high quality, cost-effective health care for diverse populations.

Whittier Street Health Center (WSHC) is a Joint Commission-accredited urban community health center providing primary and specialty health care, oral health, mental health and substance abuse counseling services, and social and outreach services to individuals from culturally and circumstantially diverse communities.  Whittier’s mission Statement is: “ To serve as a center of excellence that provides high quality, and accessible health care and social services that achieve health equity, social justice, and the economic well-being of our diverse populations.”  It is designated as a 330 (i) PHPC and a 330 (e) health center by HRSA.

Whittier’s Vision Statement is: “Become an exceptional community health provider that addresses health care inequities, closes gaps in life expectancy, and pursues social justice.”  WSHC offers primary medical care, oral and behavioral health care at two sites in Boston. Whittier’s cultural competence earned its designation as one of only ten refugee health assessment sites contracted by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health. WSHC has developed a set of initiatives which include chronic disease management, strategies to address health disparities such as comprehensive screening programs, supports for lifestyle change, and  health education. Whittier has also developed social programs to address the economic inequities and social injustices in the communities served.

We invite you to visit us at our two locations: our new 78,900-square foot, Silver LEED-certified health care facility located at 1290 Tremont Av in Roxbury, and our Satellite Clinic at 276 Blue Hill Ave in Dorchester.

Accreditation
Whittier is accredited by The Joint Commission (TJC), certified by the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) as a Patient-Centered Medical Home, and recognized for Behavioral Health Integration. Whittier is licensed by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH) and is a FTCA Deemed Facility.

Statement of Commitment
In order to ensure that Whittier Street Health Center’s programs and services achieve the mission and vision articulated by the organization’s leadership, we make a pledge to the community we serve to:

Care for our patients as we would our loved ones: with expertise, compassion and respect;
Personify initiative, innovation and tenacity in addressing community health priorities;
Demonstrate that we foster an environment of diversity, reward excellence and added-value, and encourage good citizenship amongst employees;
Work well with our colleagues and our community to advance the well-being of our clients;
Exhibit leadership on critical issues in ways worthy of the public’s confidence; and
Demonstrate accountability, integrity and resourcefulness in our financial stewardship.
Core Values
At the heart of Whittier Street Health Center is a set of core values that permeate our customer service, patient care and staff interaction:

Respect for Patients, Team and Self: Respects oneself, is respectful to peers,
management, clients/patients (internal and external) Displays common courtesy
and understanding of others.
Cultural Agility: Demonstrates willingness to learn about both cultural differences
and similarities. Is sensitive to those differences and understands that ‘my way’ is
not necessarily ‘your way’. Demonstrates tolerance and expresses that tolerance in
daily work relationships.
Passion for Life: Demonstrates willingness to learn and adapt to change. Sets
above average standards and meet them. Shows competency in his/her field and
strive for better. Willingness to share information, accept feedback and
constructive criticism.
Education of Staff and Residents: Demonstrates a willingness to upgrade skills,
enhance knowledge and keep current. Embraces opportunities to grow within his/her
discipline and shows ability to acquire new proficiencies. An effort is made to attain
the highest level of competencies. Uses effective self-management support strategies
that include assessment, goal setting, action planning, problem solving and follow-up.
Patient-Centric Care: Proving care that is respectful of, and responsive to, individual
patient preferences, needs and values, and ensuring that patient values guide all
clinical decisions.
Advocacy: Takes responsibility and accountability for job. Supports improvements in
department and takes responsibilities for making improvements within the scope of
their job. Reflects Whittier Street’s Core Values and embraces the mission.
Preserve Patient Dignity: Take into account the suffering of others and attempt to alleviate
that suffering as if it were one’s own.
Trust and Trustworthiness: Consistently builds assured reliance of others on his/her personal
character, honesty, abilities and strengths to perform as promised or expected. Prompts
confidence and belief from others in personal abilities and commitment to solve problems
and resolve conflicts. Creates sense of certainty and dependability with consistent moral
conduct. Takes responsibility for person conduct, obligations, and mistakes and accepts
accountability for the consequence of one’s actions.
Joy at Work: Demonstrates the Intellectual, behavioral and emotional commitment to
meaningful and satisfying work.
Best Place to Work and Serve: Demonstrate your care for those around you at work. Taking
time to help others when they’re overworked, showing acts of kindness, or even just offering
small gestures on their own.
Whittier Street Health Center is a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC). 

This health center receives HHS funding and has Federal Public Health Service (PHS) deemed status with respect to certain health or health-related claims, including medical malpractice claims, for itself and its covered individuals.

Whittier Street Health Center is a private, 501(c)(3) non-profit organization.

Tax Exempt ID# 04-2619517
