Primary Care

Adult Medicine
Children & Teens
Behavioral Health
Cancer Survivor’s Clinic
 

 

At Whittier we are working to create a culture of wellness in your community by emphasizing prevention and wellness. Our goal is to help you avoid chronic illnesses and health crises that send you to the Emergency Room or result in hospitalization. Because early detection is critical to the effective treatment of most conditions, your team will be sure that you receive all recommended screening. They will also encourage you to make lifestyle changes that will help you to prevent chronic diseases like diabetes and manage the chronic conditions you do have so that you can feel better.

Your team will give you an individualized Prescription for Health that includes diet and exercise recommendations and referrals to providers and services at Whittier.

Before you go to an emergency room for a minor medical emergency, call our Same Day Services to see if you can treated by your care team at Whittier.

Same Day Services
Our Same-Day services are integrated in all primary care teams for adult, pediatrics and families. Patients can be seen and treated for injuries medical conditions and other ailments. On site x-ray services are available from 9AM to 5PM.  Lab services are available during all clinic hours

Whittier encourages all patients to follow up with their primary care provider and any non-emergent problem can be quickly and efficiently assessed and treated by your primary care provider or your care team and that includes but not limited as follows:

Minor lacerations
Muscle sprains & strains
Animal bites
Sore throats
Ear aches
Flu symptoms
Fever
Respiratory infection
Asthma attacks
Migraines,
Blood pressure stabilization
Skin problems
Non-Emergency Walk-In Services
You can walk in and see a nurse any time! During the flu season, you may come in for a flu shot. Other things nurses can help you with include:

Medical Advice
Vaccination
Blood Pressure Check
Pregnancy Test
STI / STD Test
Wound Check & Dressing Changes
Ear Cleaning
Suture Removal
Post ER Visit/Hospitalization Care
Our High Risk Nurses will follow up with you within 48 business hours after you get out of the hospital to find out what you need and make sure you have prompt follow with your care team. Case Managers, working closely with your team, will refer you to community resources like food pantries and organizations that can help with transportation and durable medical equipment.

Fax Number: (617) 858-2661

FAQ

What happens when I call for a same-day appointment?

When you call (617)427-1000, we will do everything possible to ensure you receive access to the primary care you need. If we cannot accommodate your initial request for an appointment with your preferred provider or at your preferred location, we will search for another Whittier Primary Care provider.

What time do I need to call by to schedule a same-day appointment?

If you call earlier in the day, we’ll work with you to schedule a same-day appointment. If you call later in the afternoon, and there are no longer appointments available that day, we will schedule you for the next business day.

When can I call to schedule a same-day appointment?

Our call center is open Monday through Friday, 8:30 am to 5 pm, excluding holidays, to help you schedule appointments.

Are same-day appointments available on weekends or in the evenings?

Whittier is open on Saturdays from 8:30 am to 5 PM.  Please call (617) 427 1000 for an evening or weekend appointment.

What happens if I call after clinical hours and I need to speak to a provider?

If you need medical attention after hours, weekends and holidays, please call the main number (617)427-1000 and Whittier answering service will connect you to a doctor to assess your condition and give you recommendations.

Nutrition
The team of registered dietitians (RD) at Whittier Street Health Center offer comprehensive nutritional assessments and counseling to meet each individual’s nutritional needs. With special attention to maintaining overall health and managing health conditions, such as diabetes and hypertension, the RDs work closely with patients, families and the team of health care providers to develop a personalized nutrition plan for each patient.

Fax Number: (617) 858-2666

Clinical Pharmacy Program
Whittier partners with independently operated pharmacies  located within our clinic buildings. Our Prescription Assistance Program helps eligible patients with prescription co-pays and other costs associated with prescriptions, especially for those with without adequate prescription insurance.

Fax number: (617) 989-3054

Laboratory
The Laboratory Department consists of phlebotomists, medical technologists, and a Clinical Pathologist. In addition to phlebotomy, we offer on site testing and oversee the point of care testing in clinical areas. The Whittier Laboratory is accredited by the Joint Commission (JCAHO).



///SPECIALTY SERVICES///
 Adult Healthy Weight: The Adult Healthy Weight Management at Whittier is an integral part of the Diabetes and Cardiovascular Clinics and Adult Medicine department. The multi-disciplinary clinical team comprises of physicians, nurse practitioners, nutritionists, behavioral health specialist and a care coordinator. Every patient referred to the program receives individualized nutrition and weight loss plan and if they choose to have surgery (bariatric) a comprehensive follow-up and tracking of all necessary procedures to “clear” the patient to be able to have the surgery.

The Adult Healthy Weight care team at Whittier Street Health Center offers support to patients seeking surgical weight loss options. We work closely with Brigham and Women’s bariatric program that performs the weight loss surgery. Our team includes a provider champion nurse practitioner, registered dietitian, fitness coach, care coordinator and behavioral health counselor.

 Community Cancer Care: Dana-Farber Community Cancer Care is a partnership between the Whittier Street Health Center and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. Our on-site comprehensive cancer care program offers the following:

Expert second opinion for known malignancies
Efficient diagnostic work-up of suspected malignancies
Mammography
Immediate referrals into disease specific departments at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute
Referrals to breast health specialists at Brigham and Women’s Hospital
Referrals to dental specialists at Brigham and Women’s Hospital
Referrals to geneticists and genetic testing
No-cost lung cancer screening and on-site tobacco cessation counseling
Viral Hepatitis: WSHC has stepped up Hepatitis C screening and has developed a HCV treatment clinic as well as a STD clinic.

 Screening Services for Developmental Disabilities: Whittier’s Pediatric Department in collaboration with Boston’s Children’s Hospital provides screening services for developmental disabilities. Whittier Rainbow Clinic serves children diagnosed as “Special Needs.” The care provided in the clinic is multi-disciplinary with the patient’s primary care provider, care coordinators and behavioral health provider working collaboratively to provide compassionate patient centered care.

 Complementary Therapies: WSHC has recently added massage therapy and acupuncture services to our array of services available to our patients.
 
 
 ///General Dentistry, Oral Surgery and Orthodontics///
As  a full service Community Health Center, Whittier offers oral care and dental services including:

Preventive for adults and children (including dental sealants)
Restorative ( Fixed and Removable )
Oral Surgery
Periodontal Surgery
Orthodontics *
Endodontic
Dental Implants
*  Orthodontics services are by referral to the specialist as of 10/31/2018. If your Orthodontic treatment is under MassHealth, the approval has been released and you can complete your treatment at a nearby provider less than one mile away.

For more information contact (617) 989-3240 or (617) 989-3181

//Eye Care//
Whittier Street Health Center is a full service primary care health center integrating a wide range of health services including eye care. Our state of the art equipment allows us to service all age groups from Pediatric to Geriatrics.  We treat a wide range of visual problems and eye disease such as refractive errors, amblyopia, glaucoma management, diabetic retinopathy, macular degeneration, cataract, dry eye and other ocular conditions.

The Eye Department consists of 6 providers.

Eye Services available at Whittier Street Health Center:

Routine Eye Exams
Contact Lens Fittings (Cosmetic and Specialty fittings)
Emergency Services
Ophthalmology Services
Optical with Onsite Laboratory
For more information, please call (617) 989-3058

Fax Number: (617) 858-2662
Fax Number: (617) 858-2664


Mobile Health Care Programs and Services
Mobile Health Care Programs and Services: Bringing Health Care To Our Community!



 In November 2018, Whittier Street Health Center launched an outreach-focused Mobile Health Van. The original Mobile Health Van was used primarily for infectious disease testing, counseling and outreach to individuals at highest risk for HIV, HCV and STIs. Today, Whittier’s Mobile Health Program has grown to a fleet of four health vans, with the newest addition of a fully equipped Mobile Unit with two exam rooms, a bathroom and a lab. The pivotal expansion of the Mobile Health Program exemplifies Whittier Street Health Center’s mission to serve as a center of excellence that provides high quality, and accessible health care and social services that achieve health equity, social justice, and the economic well-being of our diverse patient populations. Through our Mobile Health Program, we are able to meet individuals where they are, and to engage, educate and empower community members to transform and improve their lives. The Mobile Health Program provides routine and preventative primary care services, Oral Health care and screenings for early detection of chronic illnesses, including depression, substance misuse, diabetes and hypertension to close the gaps in life expectancies for low-income communities of color and immigrant populations

 //MOBILE HEALTH CARE UNIT SERVICES://

 Physicals for adults and Pediatric well visits
Blood sugar screenings
Blood pressure screenings
Cholesterol screenings
Vision screenings
Hearing screenings
Depression and Substance Misuse screening
Follow-up health care services
Health Education
Linkage to all Whittier medical, specialty and social services
Assistance with MassHealth enrollment
MOBILE ORAL HEALTH VAN SERVICES:

Conduct patient-specific oral health risk assessments on all patients.
Identify patient-specific conditions and medical treatments that impact oral health.
Identify patient-specific, oral conditions and diseases that impact overall health.
Integrate epidemiology of caries, periodontal diseases, oral cancer, and common oral trauma into the risk assessment.
Perform oral health evaluations linking patient history, risk assessment, and clinical presentation.
Identify and prioritize strategies to prevent or mitigate risk impact for oral and systemic diseases.
MOBILE INFECTIOUS DISEASE AND SPECIAL POPULATIONS (IDSP) HEALTH VAN SERVICES: 

Provide confidential space for HIV testing
Provide a non-judgmental and supportive environment to discuss HIV and PrEP
Extend support to HIV patients by linking them to appropriate medical care and support, including treatment.
Offer information about various community resources, education, and referrals to social services.
Whittier’s Mobile Health Unit can be tailored to assess and address the specific health needs of faith-based communities, Housing developments, Community-based organizations, Schools, Women’s Health programs, Senior and Elder services, youth and adolescent services, as well as corporations/employers. If interested in learning more about Whittier’s Mobile Health Program or to schedule one of our vans at your site, please contact Mobile Health Care team via email at: Mobile Health Services @wshc.org or by calling (617) 989-3212.

//Pharmacy: (617) 606-3777//
Effective July 1st, 2021, the pharmacy will be owned and operated by Whittier Street Health Center as an integral part of all high quality, integrated and culturally sensitive services offered at our patient centered medical home on 1290 Tremont Street, Roxbury.

Whittier Street Health Pharmacy is a Retail pharmacy open to the public and offer free home delivery of medications.

Whittier Street Health Center Pharmacy provides a broad spectrum of services to ensure that you achieve the best results from your medications. Our pharmacists are available to help manage all your prescription medications, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and other supplements. They have access to patient records and are trained to identify possible interactions, and duplicative or expired therapies that often result when multiple physicians are involved in a patient’s care.

Whittier Street Health Pharmacy participates in the 340B Drug Discount Program which is a US federal government program that requires drug manufacturers to provide outpatient drugs to eligible health care organizations and covered entities at significantly reduced prices. The reduced prices provide better access and keep our communities healthier.

Whittier Street Health Center, working in partnership with the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy, has strategically designed pharmacy and Medication Therapy Management (MTM) programs to address the needs of this population. Whittier Street Health Center’s clinical pharmacists have been providing culturally competent Clinical Pharmacy Services (CPS) to high risk patients in its MTM clinics for many years. Pharmacy support staff, community health workers, and pharmacy students assist the clinical pharmacists in translation and providing comprehensive CPS. Whittier is fully committed to improving the safety and health outcomes of all patients.

In addition to MTM services, our clinical pharmacists participate on clinical teams including diabetes, pediatric asthma, hypertension, transition of care and Hepatitis C. Pharmacy staff members ensure that the administration and clinical staff are aware of medication related regulatory compliance requirements.

To better serve our patients from both sites (1290 Tremont St and 278 Blue Hills Ave), we will offer medication delivery, if needed.

In most cases, we can fill your prescription while you wait. We accept cash, debit/credit cards, flexible spending account cards, and local checks.

 

Whittier Street Health Center Pharmacy accepts:

Almost all Commercial insurance plans
Medicare Part D prescription drug plans
MassHealth
Medicare Part B
Worker’s Compensation
MassHealth MCOs
HSN
 

Our hours of operation are:

Monday to Friday 8:30am to 8pm
Saturday 9am to 5pm
Sunday Closed
 

If you have questions, please contact the pharmacy directly at 617 606-3777 or by email at: WhittierPharmacy@wshc.org
