Contact Whittier Street Health Center
icon
Whittier Street
Health Center

1290 Tremont Street, Roxbury, MA 02120
Whittier Street Health Center
FREDERICA M. WILLIAMS BUILDING 

1290 Tremont Street
Roxbury, MA 02120
(617) 427-1000

Monday-Friday:
8:30 AM to 8:00 PM
Saturday:
8:30 AM to 5:00 PM

Pharmacy: (617) 606-3777
1290 Tremont Street
Roxbury, MA 021

Monday-Friday:
8:30 AM to 8:00 PM
Saturday:
9:00 AM to 5:00 PM

Whittier Street Health Center
– Satellite Clinic
278 Blue Hill Avenue
Roxbury, MA
(617) 858-2550

Monday – Friday:
8:30 AM to 5:00 PM

Development Office:
Email: Events@wshc.org

For Media Inquiries and Information,
Please Call: 617-989-3221 Email: Info@wshc.org

///////Make an Appointment///
To make an appointment please visit this link:
http://www.wshc.org/make-an-appointment/


/////To make donations visit this page////
https://www.wshc.org/donation-page/

////patient portal//

https://mychart.ochin.org/mychart/

/////FAQS///
Question: How do I contact a member of my care team?

A. If you need to make an appointment, please call the main number at (617) 427-1000. Your primary care provider will also give you card that lists the different members of your care team with phone numbers that may be helpful.

Question:Can I be seen if I don’t have an appointment?

A. Yes. If you need to be seen right away, you can come to the health center and we will try to schedule you with a member of your team. If we are unable to schedule you with a member of your team, you will be seen in our Urgent Care Clinic.


question: How do I make an appointment?


A. Call the main health center number at (617) 427-1000 to make an appointment to see your provider. You can also make an appointment at the front desk while the health center is open. We accept ALL Health Insurance.


Question:How do I learn more about my team?

A. Each patient will be given information about who is on their team and the different roles they play. If you have questions, you can ask your primary care provider about who is on your team and who you should contact for different needs. Depending on your question or need, different team members will be able to help. If you are seen by another doctor away from Whittier, such as in the Emergency Room or at an appointment for a specialist, it is necessary for you or a family member to let your Medical Home team know. This will allow us to continue to coordinate your health care.


question:Can I choose my own doctor or health care provider?

A. Yes. Whittier Street Health Center is a Patient Centered Medical Home, which is a team-based approach to providing care to our patients. Your team includes your selected primary care provider, another provider who can see you if your provider is not available, a nurse, a medical assistant, a case manager and anyone else you need on your team, such as someone to help with health insurance or behavioral health staff. This team-based approach will help Whittier provide better care to our patients. Your team will get to know you and be able to respond to your needs more quickly. To learn more about Whittier’s providers go online or call (617) 427-1000 and select your department.



Question:Can I be seen if I do not have health insurance?

A. Yes. Whittier Street Health Center will see anyone regardless of insurance or income status. We will also help you sign up for health insurance.  This practice serves all patients regardless of inability to pay. Discounts for essential services are offered based on family size and income


question:Who should I contact if I have an emergency and the Health Center is closed?

A. If you are experiencing a life threatening emergency, please call 911 or proceed to the emergency room. Inform staff in the emergency room that you are a patient of Whittier Street Health Center and they will contact our physician on call.

If you need to reach Whittier after hours to speak with a provider, please call (617) 427-1000. Our answering service will contact the physician on call.



Question:When is Whittier Street Health Center open?

A. The health center is open from 8:30 AM – 8:00 PM on Monday – Friday and from 8:30 AM – 5:00 PM on Saturdays.



//Learn and prevent///
Learn & Prevent
Quick Guide to Health Living

Your Source for Reliable Health Information

Eating Right Is Not Complicated

Emphasize fruit, vegetables, whole grains and low-fat or fat-free milk and milk products.
Include lean meats, poultry, fish, beans, eggs and nuts.
Make sure your diet is low in saturated fats, trans fats, salt (sodium) and added sugars. eatingright.org
Make Your Calories Count

Eat foods rich in nutrients, such as vitamins, minerals and fiber.
Eat lower calorie foods. eatingright.org
 

Focus on Variety

Eat a variety of food from all food groups.
Fruits and vegetables can be fresh, frozen or canned.
Eat dark green vegetables such as leafy greens or broccoli.
Eat orange vegetables such as sweet potatoes and carrots.
Vary your protein choices with more fish, beans and peas.
Emphasize fruit, vegetables, whole grains and low-fat or fat-free milk and milk products.
Include lean meats, poultry, fish, beans, eggs and nuts.
Eat at least 3 ounces of whole-grain cereals, breads, crackers, rice or pasta every day. eatingright.org
 

Check the Ingredient List

Foods with more than one ingredient must have an ingredient list on the label.
Ingredients are listed in descending order by weight.
Those in the largest amounts are listed first. eatingright.org
 

The Wellness Institute at Whittier Street Health Center

Whittier’s Wellness Institute includes a community garden and a Fitness Club as well as a number of Dieticians on staff who can assist you in planning healthy meals.  Our community garden is about to start planting for this season.  To learn more, please call Whittier Street Health Center at 617-427-1000.
