A Message from the President and CEO
BBJ Top 50 List_Frederica_10.2015

Welcome to Whittier Street Health Center. For 88 years we have been providing culturally sensitive, high quality health care and social services to the residents of Boston.

Whittier provides comprehensive care to meet the needs of the whole person. The services include primary care, specialty medical services, mental health, substance abuse counseling, eye care, oral health, infectious diseases, nutrition, wellness and fitness, and social services.

More than a health care center, Whittier is on the front lines of addressing health, economic equity, and social justice for you and your family. When a patient walks through the doors at Whittier, we understand their needs and the barriers they had to overcome just to make that appointment.

At both our main health center on 1290 Tremont Street and at our satellite clinic on 292 Blue Hill Ave, we tackle the root causes of health disparities through our holistic, whole-person approach to care.   This includes over 40 clinical and social service programs, which recently grew to include a larger, permanent Food Pantry, a fully equipped 6,000 sq. ft. Fitness Center & Gym, a new Weight Management Clinic, and the expansion of our Mobile Health Van services.

Every day we see how education, income and environmental factors—far more than genes or gender—determine health outcomes. Socioeconomic status is health status for many of the individuals and families we serve. To address these inequities, Whittier has designed and implemented its Boston Health Equity Program (BHEP), a primary care delivery model that combines care coordination, community outreach and wellness support.

Since you’re here – please browse through our website and see what we have to offer.   We also invite you to come in and visit our full service medical facilities located in the heart of the city, convenient by both car and public transportation.   We believe that after visiting our state-of-the art facility on 1290 Tremont Street or 278 Blue Hill Ave, and speaking with our competent, caring staff, that you will want to join us and become part of the Whittier family.

Whittier serves as a beacon of hope in the communities we serve! We are deeply committed to our mission to promote wellness and eliminate health disparities and look forward to serving you with the highest quality of care. Thank you for choosing Whittier as your partner in health and wellness!

Sincerely,
Frederica M. Williams
President and CEO
